[AIRFLOW-XXXX] - add communication chapter to contributing (#7204)
mistercrunch/Airflow: CONTRIBUTING.rst

* Slack for ad-hoc questions, troubleshooting, occassional discussions, group talks (including SIG - special
interest groups), notifications, random queries, newbie questions etc.

It is important to remember that all contributors, committers and even PMC members are individuals
that contribute a lot of their free time on top of their work time to Apache Airflow.
They have families, personal life, sometimes they are swamped with work, sometimes they are on vacations
sometimes they are simply tired and need a time off. They are in various timezones and their responsiveness
will vary from time to time. As a community project we have no formal structure, we have no managers nor
departments and most of the people are autonomous in their opinions and decisions, so sometimes even
committers will have different opinions on the same subjects.

Disagreements are expected, discussions might include strong opinions and contradicting statements.
Sometimes you might get two committers asking you to do things differently. This all happened in the past
and will continue to happen. As a community we have some mechanisms to facilitate discussion and come to

> a consesus, conclusions and sometime we end up voting certain decisions. It is important that those

Reviewer: consesus typo

Author: Thanks!

decisions are not treated as personal wins or looses - at the end it's the community that we care about
and what's good for community, should be accepted even if you have different opinion. There is the nice
motto that you should follow in case you disagree with community decision "Disagree but engage". Even
if you do not agree with a community decision, you should follow it and embrace (but you are free to
express your opinion that you don't agree with it).

Here are a few rules that are important to keep in mind when you enter our community:

 * Do not be afraid to ask questions
 * We have deeply asynchronous communication - do not expect immediate answers, ping people if you are blocked
 * We have #newbie-questions channel in slack as a safe place to ask questions
 * You can ask one of the committers to be a mentor for you, they can guide within the community
 * You can apply to more structured Apache Mentoring Programme
 * It’s your responsibility as an author to take your PR from start-to-end including leading communication
   in the PR
 * It’s your responsibility as an author to ping committers to review your PR - be mildly annoying sometimes,

>    it’s OK to be slightly annoying with your change - it iis also a sign for committers that you care

Reviewer: iis

   above depending if you have more commits that cause conflicts in your PR (rebasing applies each
   commit from your PR one-by-one).

How to communicate
==================

Apache Airflow is a Community within Apache Software Foundation. As the motto of
the Apache Software Foundation states "Community over Code" - people in the

> community are far more important than the code they create.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
community are far more important than their contribution.
```
As discussed during ACEU19, community needs more than just "code" 🚀

This means that communication is very important, and this chapter is all about it.

We have various channel of communication - starting from the official devlist, comments
in the Pull Requests, Slack, wiki.

All those channels can be used for different purposes:

* The devlist for official communication, discussing proposals, voting, general issues, asking community for
  opinion etc.
* Wiki for detailed discussions on big proposals (AIPs) and some helpful, shared resources.
* PRs for discussing implementation details of this PR (not for architectural discussions)
* Slack for ad-hoc questions, troubleshooting, occassional discussions, group talks (including SIG - special
interest groups), notifications, random queries, newbie questions etc.

It is important to remember that all contributors, committers and even PMC members are individuals

> that contribute a lot of their free time on top of their work time to Apache Airflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that contribute a lot of their free time on top of their work time to develop Apache Airflow.
```

> They have families, personal life, sometimes they are swamped with work, sometimes they are on vacations

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should change "they" to "we" to create a stronger bond and avoid deindividuation? Especially that "we" is used later on.

Author: Changed to "commiters" and reworded we in a few places.

Reviewer 3: I know this conversation is marked as resolved but I agree with @nuclearpinguin here. At the moment, a message sounds as if committers or PMC members were gods and we shouldn't bother them because they have private lives  😄 Everyone does have private life / duties etc. In general I'd make the whole paragraph shorter and more concise. The core message in my opinion should be about: 
```suggestion
We are all devoting our time for community as individuals who except for being active in Apache Airflow have families, daily jobs, right for vacation. Sometimes we are in different time zones or simply are busiy with day-to-day duties that our response time might be delayed. For us it's crucial to remember to respect each other in the project with no formal structure. There are no managers, departments, most of us is autonomous in our opinions, decisions. All of it makes Apache Airflow community a great space for open discussion and mutual respect for various opinions. 
```

sometimes they are simply tired and need a time off. They are in various timezones and their responsiveness
will vary from time to time. As a community project we have no formal structure, we have no managers nor
departments and most of the people are autonomous in their opinions and decisions, so sometimes even
committers will have different opinions on the same subjects.

Disagreements are expected, discussions might include strong opinions and contradicting statements.
Sometimes you might get two committers asking you to do things differently. This all happened in the past
and will continue to happen. As a community we have some mechanisms to facilitate discussion and come to
a consensus, conclusions and sometime we end up voting certain decisions. It is important that those

> decisions are not treated as personal wins or looses - at the end it's the community that we care about

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
decisions are not treated as personal wins or looses. At the end it's the community that we all care about
```

and what's good for community, should be accepted even if you have different opinion. There is the nice
motto that you should follow in case you disagree with community decision "Disagree but engage". Even
if you do not agree with a community decision, you should follow it and embrace (but you are free to
express your opinion that you don't agree with it).

Here are a few rules that are important to keep in mind when you enter our community:

 * Do not be afraid to ask questions
 * We have deeply asynchronous communication - do not expect immediate answers, ping people if you are blocked
 * We have #newbie-questions channel in slack as a safe place to ask questions
 * You can ask one of the committers to be a mentor for you, they can guide within the community

>  * You can apply to more structured Apache Mentoring Programme

Reviewer 2: Should we add link here?

 * It’s your responsibility as an author to take your PR from start-to-end including leading communication
   in the PR
 * It’s your responsibility as an author to ping committers to review your PR - be mildly annoying sometimes,
   it’s OK to be slightly annoying with your change - it is also a sign for committers that you care

>  * We have high-bar set for the code requirements - be considerate to those requirements

Reviewer 2: Hm, maybe a short note why they are so high?

Author: Added it as a chapter above

>  * If in doubt - ask community for their opinions and sometimes voting at the devlist

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * If in doubt - ask the community for their opinion or propose to vote at the devlist
```

   above depending if you have more commits that cause conflicts in your PR (rebasing applies each
   commit from your PR one-by-one).

How to communicate
==================

Apache Airflow is a Community within Apache Software Foundation. As the motto of
the Apache Software Foundation states "Community over Code" - people in the
community are far more important than their contribution.

> This means that communication is very important, and this chapter is all about it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This means that communication is very important, and this chapter is all about it.
```
This means that communication plays the big role in it, and this chapter is all about it.

> We have various channel of communication - starting from the official devlist, comments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have various channel of communication - starting from the official devlist, comments
```
We have various channels of communication - starting from the official devlist, comments

in the Pull Requests, Slack, wiki.

All those channels can be used for different purposes:

* The devlist for official communication, discussing proposals, voting, general issues, asking community for
  opinion etc.
* Wiki for detailed discussions on big proposals (AIPs) and some helpful, shared resources.
* PRs for discussing implementation details of this PR (not for architectural discussions)
* Slack for ad-hoc questions, troubleshooting, occassional discussions, group talks (including SIG - special

> interest groups), notifications, random queries, newbie questions etc.

Reviewer 3: [UI]

I'm not sure how is it going to look in terms of the final UI but I'd use bullet points for each channel. Let's say it's "Wiki", so I'd describe the purpose of Wiki below in bullet points:

- detailed discussions on big proposals (AIPs) 
- helpful shared resources (what type of resources btw?) 

Maybe it's not that useful in terms of description of the subject for Wiki but for Slack for sure. Let me know what you think. 

[Content]

**Devlist**
If I were a beginner contributor I wouldn't know what actually dev-list is. What is lacking personally to me are the rules for communicating within the devlist itself. By this I mean that I don't know how I should compose the subject when I write about something and if I should add [DISCUSSION] / [AIP-XY] etc. It's a general comment that I'd also like to add to the Apache Airflow devlist. The reason I am not active within the devlist is my lack of knowledge on how to use it, so that everyone understands my point of view, the subject I touch is well-classified etc. 

**Slack**

How do I get an invitation to Slack? What is Slack? Some people might don't know. For most of you it sounds obvious but I'd be kind of lost. Speaking of China e.g. they have so different communication tools that I believe it might be worth to shortly describe Slack as a chat tool for ... _If you want to join Slack, ask XYZ for an invitation blah blah blah_

Hope the above message is clear, what's your opinion?

Author: * Those will be bullet points on second level
* I added links to all the channels
* I added information about the prefixes

> It is important to remember that all contributors, committers and even PMC members are individuals

Reviewer 3: even PMC members? I'd delete "even" :-)

that contribute a lot of their free time on top of their work time to develop Apache Airflow.
They have families, personal life, sometimes they are swamped with work, sometimes they are on vacations
sometimes they are simply tired and need a time off. They are in various timezones and their responsiveness
will vary from time to time. As a community project we have no formal structure, we have no managers nor
departments and most of the people are autonomous in their opinions and decisions, so sometimes even

> committers will have different opinions on the same subjects.

Reviewer 3: See my comment from the above discussion.

Author: Agreed.!

Disagreements are expected, discussions might include strong opinions and contradicting statements.
Sometimes you might get two committers asking you to do things differently. This all happened in the past
and will continue to happen. As a community we have some mechanisms to facilitate discussion and come to

> a consensus, conclusions and sometime we end up voting certain decisions. It is important that those

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a consensus, conclusions or we end up voting to make certain decisions. It is important that these
```

Author: Done

decisions are not treated as personal wins or looses. At the end it's the community that we all care about

> and what's good for community, should be accepted even if you have different opinion. There is the nice

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and what's good for community, should be accepted even if you have a different opinion. There is a nice
```

Author: Done

motto that you should follow in case you disagree with community decision "Disagree but engage". Even
if you do not agree with a community decision, you should follow it and embrace (but you are free to
express your opinion that you don't agree with it).

As a community - we have high requirements for code quality. This is mainly because we are a distributed

> and loosely organised team - sometime we have contributors that commit one commit only, sometimes people add

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and loosely organised team - we have both contributors that commit one commit only and people who add
```

Author: Done

> more commits, sometimes people assume informal "stewardship" over parts of code for some time - but at any

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
more commits. It happens that some people assume informal "stewardship" over parts of code - but at any
```

> time we should be sure that the code can be taken over by others - without excessive communication. Setting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
time we should make sure that the code can be taken over by others - without excessive communication. Setting
```

Author: Done

high requirements for the code (fairly strict code review, static code checks, requirements of automated

> tests, pre-commit checks ) is the best way that we can achieve that - by only accepting good quality

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
tests, pre-commit checks) is the best way to achieve that - by only accepting top-notch quality
```

> code with full test coverage we make sure that we can work with the code in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
code. Thanks to full test coverage we can make sure that we will be able to work with the code in the future.
```

So do not be surprised if you are asked to add more tests or make the code cleaner -
this is for the sake of maintainability.

Here are a few rules that are important to keep in mind when you enter our community:

 * Do not be afraid to ask questions

>  * The communication is asynchronous - do not expect immediate answers, ping others if you are blocked

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * The communication is asynchronous - do not expect immediate answers, ping others if you are blocked
```
Where can I ping someone? Devlist / Slack?

Author: added

>  * There is a #newbie-questions channel in slack as a safe place to ask questions

Reviewer 3: Ok, thanks 😄I think I'd mention this above when you write about Slack as a channel of communcation.

Author: Done

>  * You can ask one of the committers to be a mentor for you, committers can guide within the community

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * You can ask one of the committers to be a mentor for you, committers can guide you through the community
```
